# Seo Gimin's Project Portfolio Page

## Overview

**Mint** is an all-in-one money managing app that helps you track your daily expense and set budgets. It is optimized
for use via a Command Line Interface (CLI).

## Summary of Contributions

- **New Feature**: Implemented smart edit/delete function for normal/recurring entries.
    - What it does: allows users to search entries they want to delete or edit, and choose from the given matching results to proceed to delete or edit process.
      The user is able to input the fields (name, amount, etc.) they wish to query in any order, and the entries that match all fields specified will be shown.
    - Justification: This feature improves the product significantly because the users may remember only some details of the entries they
      wish to delete/edit. They can simply query any information they remember to find the entry to process.
    - Highlights: This feature is used for both edit and delete. The implementation was challenging as it required
      constant user interaction, and it required changes to existing commands.

- **New Feature**: Implemented recurring entries' view
    - What it does: appends recurring entries to the view function's list according to given date options (assuming they are valid). 
  Addition is based on its recurring period and interval.
    - Justification: This feature improves the product significantly for the users that have recurring expenses/incomes as they
      do not have to add the entries every time they recur to see it in the view list.
    - Highlights: 
      - It automatically reflects the recurred dates and added as much as they are recurred.
      - It was difficult to implement as there were various factors to consider:
          - There are various date options available (view month, view year, view between two dates, view until today)
          - Recurring interval can be monthly or yearly.
          - Entry will recur only within the recurring period (from start date to end date) 
        
            It required in-depth analysis different combinations of the above factors.

- **New Feature**: Implemented delete feature for normal/recurring entries.
    - What it does: allows user to delete entries.
    - Justification: This feature improves the product because a user may not want to keep track of that specific entry anymore.

- **New Feature**: Implemented base classes for recurring entries
    - What it does: `RecurringEntry` class is inherited by `RecurringExpense` and `RecurringIncome` classes. Each instance
      stores information about the recurring entry.

- **Enhancement**: Implemented validity checking of parsed entries' fields for some commands.
    - What it does: checks if parsed name, amount, date, end date, interval of the entries are valid and checks
      if mandatory fields are specified and valid.

- **Enhancement**: Refactored the entire code to make it more OOP. [#134](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-2/tp/pull/134)
    - Extracted out command classes, implemented command execute structure, packaged out relevant classes.

- **Code contributed**: [here](https://nus-cs2113-ay2122s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=&sort=totalCommits&sortWithin=title&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=true&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&since=2021-09-25&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&zFR=false&tabAuthor=pos0414&tabRepo=AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-2%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code&authorshipIsBinaryFileTypeChecked=false)

- **Project management**: 
  - Managed releases `v1.0`-`v2.0b` (3 releases) on GitHub

- **Community**:
  - PRs reviewed: [#294](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-2/tp/pull/294), 
  [#28](https://github.com/nus-cs2113-AY2122S1/tp/pull/28#pullrequestreview-790114182), 
  [#3](https://github.com/nus-cs2113-AY2122S1/tp/pull/3#pullrequestreview-790107103)
  
  - Reported bugs and suggestions for other teams in the class: [#1](https://github.com/pos0414/ped/issues/1),
  [#10](https://github.com/pos0414/ped/issues/10),
  [#2](https://github.com/pos0414/ped/issues/2)
  
- **Contributions to the UG**
  - Added documentation for `delete` and `deleteR`
  - Extracted out acceptable tag formats to a table and added notes about recurring entries.
  - Added recurring entries related explanation and updated examples for `view`

- **Contributions to the DG**
[#173](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-2/tp/pull/173/files), [#310](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-2/tp/pull/310/files)
  - Added explanations for the Logic component, FinanceManager and Entry sub-components. 
  - Added Sequence diagram and class diagram for the Logic component.
  - Added the class diagram for FinanceManager and Entry sub-components.
  - Added manual testing portion for delete functions.
  - Added some user stories.